All right, so the first thing
on push that we're gonna do,
we're gonna say const node equals
new node with a value, right?
We're gonna say this length plus plus.
We're gonna say, if I don't have a head,
this dot head,
then we say this dot head equals node.
Otherwise, simply we'll just say this dot
tail dot next equals node and
this dot tail.
Equals node, right?
So, the idea here is no matter what.
Whatever you're pushing on a list is
definitely going to be the last item
in the array, right.
So this dot tale is always going to
be assigned node, the the new node,
no matter what.
If you're pushing in a new head, or sorry
if you're pushing into an empty list.
It's also going to be the head, otherwise.
The tail dot next is gonna be the node,
right?
And then again here at the bottom,
we're always going to assign
the tail to be the new node.
Okay.
Pop, we're just gonna do
return this dot delete.
This dot length minus 1, right?
And then we'll cut up the delete
here in just a second.
For the find, we're just gonna
say if index is greater than or
equal to this dot length.
Returned no, right?
So if we try and find something that's
out of bounds just return nothing.
Otherwise let current
equals this dot head.
Then we'll do a for
loop here for let I equals zero.
I Is less than or equal to index minus 1.
And then I plus plus.
And we're just going to say
current equals current dot next.
And we'll just kind of be looping through
all those nodes until we arrive on the one
that we want.
And then at the bottom
will return current.
So this is just gonna be an internal
find sort of method here so
that we can find nodes.
We never wanna return nodes directly to
the consumer of this linked list because
they wouldn't know what
to do with it right.
This is an internal data structure here.
Forget.
We're just gonna say const node
equals this dot find index.
And here we can say if
there's no node here,
then return for zero,
if you wanna return undefined,
otherwise return node dot value.
So that's the get,
pretty straightforward and
then delete is where things tend
to get a little bit more hairy.
So the first thing we wanna do is we wanna
handle, if they try and delete the head.
So if index triple equals zero,
then we need to handle that specifically.
So const head equals this dot head and
we're gonna say if head,
they want to say this dot
head equals head dot next.
Otherwise, we're gonna say this dot
head equals null because we need to
handle it differently.
If it's the only item in the array versus,
it's just the head of a long list, right?
That's what this is doing here.
And then here underneath that,
we'll just say this dot length.
Minus minus and return head dot value.
So that handles it if we're
trying to delete the head,
otherwise we need to say const node equals
this dot find index minus 1, right?
So this is going to find the node
previous to the one that we wanna delete.
We're gonna say const excise as in
the the node that we want to cut out is
gonna be equal to node dot next, right?
Then we're going to say,
if there's no excise.
Then here we could throw an error or
something like that,
we can return void zero you can do
whatever you want I returned null.
Depends on what kind of semantics
you want to assign to it.
Then we're gonna say node dot
next equals excise dot next.
I'm gonna say if there's node dot next.
Then this dot tail is
equal to node dot next.
And this done link minus minus.
And return excise dot value.
Okay, so
let's see if that passes our tests.
And thus, was great.
So again,
this is kind of where link less fall down.
Is that anytime you wanna do a look up,
you have to loop through everything to try
and find the thing that
you're looking for.
Just not necessarily always ideal.
But, this is where it's kind of really
great as these deletes, despite the fact
that this codes kind of like not fun
to look at, it's constant time, right?
All you got to do is move
the pointer from here to here.
It's just pointing at a new node and
we don't have to
like shift our entire array over
like we had to do with array list.
Okay, so questions about linked lists.
>> So intersect question on line 48.
So why is there like a index
minus one record less than or
equal to index minus one
because we can we give like a.
[INAUDIBLE] Than index.
Because that's what's correct
[LAUGH] I mean we can look here.
>> Just thinking like
what [INAUDIBLE] right?
I less than index for [INAUDIBLE]
>> I think it's
just because we need to find, that's the
way that those nodes had been numbered.
It's, I guess you could restructure it,
so that the indexes would be different.
Like what refers to which index refers to
which node because it's all depends on
what kind of semantic
value assigned to it.
Yeah, that's, I think that's just that's
the one that we'll find the correct one
because we're just looping through all
these current until we find the one
that we're looking for.
>> I think what she's saying you can
remove minus 1, if you remove less than or
equal if you just make it less than.
>> Got you.
I see what you're saying.
>> Yeah [INAUDIBLE]
>> Totally.
>> Yeah, and
the other question is in line 65, like a,
we are making a head tool model, but
we are not making the tail to [INAUDIBLE]
>> This is true.
Yep.
That would have been a bug.
So that's correct.
Good call.
As you can see,
these tests are not exhaustive either.
So I'm sure there's probably
more bugs buried in here.
Again, really what I'm going for is the
core of it, what I really wanted you to
see was this logic of how to
find something in a linked list.
And this logic here of just
moving the pointer around.
Right?
Again, the point of this course
is not [INAUDIBLE] thank you for
helping me find the bug.
I think that's a good to show people.
But more what I'm interested in, what you
find here is what's the actual logic here.